Computing has always been an integral part of my life but I had never consciously acknowledged it's presence before. Everyone in my generation has grown up using phones, computers, and tablets every single day. Going somewhere without our phone or being in a place without internet access seems like a bizzare concept to us. The generation before us is the opposite. My parents would rather talk to someone in person while I would rather have the conversation over text. This is probably because they did not grow up with such technology all around them and are not as comfortable with it as I am. I had never given the technology that made these pieces of equipment possible a name before, but after taking this class and learning what computing is, I can't help but notice how I am surrounded by computing and how I am extremely dependent on computing for most of my daily activities! In this post, I would like to focus on the one device that has the most influence in my daily life and is probably one of computing's most widely used contributions. 


Answering questions related to whether computing is adding something to my life or not and whether it is helping me become a better person are very difficult to answer. A very simple example of its positive influence is my phone's alarm clock. It helps me wake up in the morning and reach places on time. It is definitely a positive influence. Another example is the various messaging applications on my phone that help me stay in touch with friends and family at all times regardless of the physical distance between us. However, the same phone houses social media applications that are creating new problems that haven't been faced by the generations before ours. Incresed rates of depression, anxiety, and low self-confidence in our generation have all been attributed to the focus on one number (number of likes on your post for instance) being the sole indicator of how likeable you are or how many friends you have. These are two very contrasting instances of how the same computing technology is used. There are always people who say that how you let these technologies affect you depend solely on how you let them affect you. There are certain ways to prevent its effect on your mental well being. For instance, I try to limit my usage of social media applications to a few minutes during the day to reduce my time wasted on them as well as to limit its negative effects on my mental health.


It is very interesting to see how computing has seeped into our daily lives after just a few years of it becoming a part of our civilization. We can control how it affects us and whether we let ourselves get lost in its negative spiral or not. However, one fear that I have is how the future would look like in terms of staying away from such devices. If I compare my generation to the older generations, there is a huge difference in terms of dependency on technology and computing. With the huge amounts of advancements happening in tech these days, it is very hard to imagine what the future would look like.
