While reading this article, I realised how easy yet impactful it is to use technology such as Computer Vision in different art projects and/or installations to spread a message. I was very intrigued by Rafael Lozano-Hemmer's installatoin Standards and Double-Standards. Surveillance is a bog concern today but the places with the maximum surveillance are also the places with the least freedom of expression. This restricts people's awareness about the concerns that surveillance raises. Through installations like these it is possible to send an extremely impactful message indirectly. A similar project was Suicide Boc by the Bureau of Inverse Technology. While it did not impose anything on anyone, it still managed to stir up a conversation around suicide and how the government has not been tracking them properly which would lead to the problem not being addressed properly. 

It was this tha inspired me to do something similar for my final project. One universal message that needs to be spread today, among many others, is that of living a sustainable life. I wanted to use my project to spread that message and create more awareness about how unsustainable ways of living are using up important resources that we cannot get back.

Another thing that I found interesting was how the same thing can be done using different techniques. He talks about the many different ways and techniques can be used to achieve the same result of detecting someone's movement/presence. While reading this, I was reminded of teh several instances throughout this semester where I found multiple ways to reach the same destination through code. That is one of the things that I find really interesting about the field in general and found it interesting to read about it in this context as well.
